Satellite idm auth support 12891 (#1915)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_using-IdM-credentials-to-log-in-to-the-Project-Hammer-cli.adoc

[id="Using_IdM_credentials_to_log_in_to_the_{Project}_Hammer_CLI_{context}"]
= Using IdM credentials to log in to the {Project} Hammer CLI

> This section describes how to log in to your {Project} Hammer command-line interface (CLI) with your {FreeIPA} (IdM) login and password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes how to log in to your {Project} Hammer (CLI) with your {FreeIPA} (IdM) login and password.
```

Author: Should the brackets remain around 'CLI'?

Reviewer: No, it's "Hammer CLI".

Author: OK thanks for confirming

.Prerequisites

> * You have enrolled your {Project} server into IdM and configured the server to use IdM for authentication. For more information, see {InstallingServerDocURL}Configuring_External_User_Groups_{project-context}#Using_FreeIPA_admin[Using {FreeIPA}] in _{InstallingServerDocTitle}_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have enrolled your {ProjectServer} into IdM and configured it to use IdM for authentication.
For more information, see {InstallingServerDocURL}Configuring_External_User_Groups_{project-context}Using_FreeIPA_admin[Using {FreeIPA}] in _{InstallingServerDocTitle}_.
```

* An IdM server is running and reachable.

> * The host is configured to use IdM credentials to log in to the {Project} Hammer CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The host is configured to use IdM credentials to log in to your {Project} Hammer CLI.
```

[id="Using_IdM_credentials_to_log_in_to_the_{Project}_Hammer_CLI_{context}"]
= Using IdM credentials to log in to the {Project} Hammer CLI

> This section describes how to log in to your {Project} Hammer command-line interface (CLI) with your Red{nbsp}Hat Identity{nbsp}Management (IdM) login + password.

Reviewer: Please use an attribute for "Red{nbsp}Hat Identity{nbsp}Management". See https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/blob/master/guides/common/attributes-satellite.adoc#L61

Also, please replace the "+" with "and".

Author: Done

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.Prerequisites

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * You have enrolled your {Project} server into IdM and configured the server to use IdM for authentication. For more information, see {InstallingServerDocURL}Configuring_External_User_Groups_{project-context}#Using_FreeIPA_admin[Using Red Hat Identity Management] in _{InstallingServerDocTitle}_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have enrolled your {Project} server into IdM and configured the server to use IdM for authentication.
For more information, see {InstallingServerDocURL}Configuring_External_User_Groups_{project-context}#Using_FreeIPA_admin[Using Red Hat Identity Management] in _{InstallingServerDocTitle}_.
```

Please see the title in the source file if you can replace "red hat identity management" in the link.

Author: Done

* An IdM server is running and reachable.
* The host is configured to use IdM credentials to log in to the {Project} Hammer CLI.

.Procedure

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> . Obtain a Kerberos ticket-granting ticket (TGT) on behalf of a Satellite user:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Obtain a Kerberos ticket-granting ticket (TGT) on behalf of a {Project} user:
```

+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
$ kinit idm_user

> Password for idm_user:

Reviewer: Is this interactive output? If so, we generally omit it because the users sees it anyway.

----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

= Using IdM credentials to log in to the {Project} Hammer CLI

This section describes how to log in to your {Project} Hammer CLI with your {FreeIPA} (IdM) login and password.

.Prerequisites
* You have enrolled your {ProjectServer} into IdM and configured it to use IdM for authentication.
For more information, see {InstallingServerDocURL}Using_FreeIPA_{project-context}[Using {FreeIPA}] in _{InstallingServerDocTitle}_.
* An IdM server is running and reachable.
* The host is configured to use IdM credentials to log users in to your {Project} Hammer CLI.
For more information, see {InstallingServerDocURL}Configuring_the_Hammer_CLI_to_Use_FreeIPA_User_Authentication_{project-context}[Configuring the Hammer CLI to Use {FreeIPA} User Authentication] in _{InstallingServerDocTitle}_.
* The host is an IdM client.

.Procedure
. Obtain a Kerberos ticket-granting ticket (TGT) on behalf of a {Project} user:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
$ kinit idm_user
----
. If automatic negotiate authentication is not enabled, use the TGT to authenticate to Hammer manually:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
$ hammer auth login negotiate
----

> . [Optional] Destroy all cached Kerberos tickets in the collection:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Optional: Destroy all cached Kerberos tickets in the collection:
```

[id="Using_IdM_credentials_to_log_in_to_the_{Project}_Hammer_CLI_{context}"]
= Using IdM credentials to log in to the {Project} Hammer CLI

This section describes how to log in to your {Project} Hammer CLI with your {FreeIPA} (IdM) login and password.

.Prerequisites
* You have enrolled your {ProjectServer} into IdM and configured it to use IdM for authentication.
For more information, see {InstallingServerDocURL}Using_FreeIPA_{project-context}[Using {FreeIPA}] in _{InstallingServerDocTitle}_.

> * An IdM server is running and reachable.

Reviewer: reachable by the users or by ProjectServer and/or attached SmartProxies?

* The host is configured to use IdM credentials to log users in to your {Project} Hammer CLI.
For more information, see {InstallingServerDocURL}Configuring_the_Hammer_CLI_to_Use_FreeIPA_User_Authentication_{project-context}[Configuring the Hammer CLI to Use {FreeIPA} User Authentication] in _{InstallingServerDocTitle}_.

> * The host is an IdM client.

Reviewer: which host? a managed host? a local machine of a user? ProjectServer?

.Procedure
. Obtain a Kerberos ticket-granting ticket (TGT) on behalf of a {Project} user:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
$ kinit idm_user
----
+
[WARNING]
====

> If, when you were setting {FreeIPA} to be the authentication provider, you enabled authentication for the {Project} API rather than the {Project} web UI, an attacker can now obtain an API session after the user receives the Kerberos TGT. The attack is possible even if the user did not previously enter the {Project} login credentials anywhere, for example in the browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If, when you were setting {FreeIPA} to be the authentication provider, you enabled authentication for the {Project} API rather than the {ProjectWebUI}, an attacker can now obtain an API session after the user receives the Kerberos TGT.
The attack is possible even if the user did not previously enter the {Project} login credentials anywhere, for example in the browser.
```

From a stategic point of view, I think we should consider moving this to a section called "security considerations" or similar to explain and mention possible downsides. 

Any strong opinions? @mdolezelova

[id="Using_IdM_credentials_to_log_in_to_the_{Project}_Hammer_CLI_{context}"]
= Using IdM credentials to log in to the {Project} Hammer CLI

This section describes how to log in to your {Project} Hammer CLI with your {FreeIPA} (IdM) login and password.

.Prerequisites
* You have enrolled your {ProjectServer} into IdM and configured it to use IdM for authentication.
For more information, see {InstallingServerDocURL}Using_FreeIPA_{project-context}[Using {FreeIPA}] in _{InstallingServerDocTitle}_.

> * The host on which you run this procedure is configured to use IdM credentials to log users in to your {Project} Hammer CLI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The host on which you run this procedure is configured to use IdM credentials to log users into your {Project} Hammer CLI.
```

> [id="Using_{FreeIPA}_credentials_to_log_in_to_the_{Project}_Hammer_CLI_{context}"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="Using_{FreeIPA-context}_credentials_to_log_in_to_the_{Project}_Hammer_CLI_{context}"]
```

And also you'll have to define `:FreeIPA-context:` as base attribute and any other build target that overwrites "FreeIPA", e.g. satellite. This is necessary because satellte builds contain whitespace in `{FreeIPA}`.

= Using IdM credentials to log in to the {Project} Hammer CLI

This section describes how to log in to your {Project} Hammer CLI with your {FreeIPA} (IdM) login and password.

.Prerequisites
* You have enrolled your {ProjectServer} into IdM and configured it to use IdM for authentication.

> More specifically, you have enabled access both to the {ProjectWebUI} and the {Project} API.

Reviewer: Should line 7 and 8 be shortened to a single line? "more specifically" reads a bit off as in "the first sentence was not 100% correct". Maybe combine them?

.Prerequisites
* You have enrolled your {ProjectServer} into IdM and configured it to use IdM for authentication.
For more information, see {InstallingServerDocURL}Using_FreeIPA_{project-context}[Using {FreeIPA}] in _{InstallingServerDocTitle}_.
* The host on which you run this procedure is configured to use IdM credentials to log users in to your {Project} Hammer CLI.
For more information, see {InstallingServerDocURL}Configuring_the_Hammer_CLI_to_Use_FreeIPA_User_Authentication_{project-context}[Configuring the Hammer CLI to Use {FreeIPA} User Authentication] in _{InstallingServerDocTitle}_.
* The host is an IdM client.

> * An IdM server is running and reachable from the host.

Reviewer: you say "from the host" here, but "by the host" in two other files. Please consolidate.

$ hammer auth login negotiate
----

.Verification

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
